# NYC Islandora Meeting: August 2019
* **Date:**  August 27, 2019
* **Time:** 3 - 5PM
* **Host:** Henry Raine
* **Location:** New-York Historical Society Museum & Library, 170 Central Park West, New York, NY 10024

* [NYCIslandora Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/nycislandora)


## ATTENDEES
* Margo Padilla, New-York Historical Society
* Henry Raine, New-York Historical Society
* Albert Min, New-York Historical Society
* Deena Schwimmer, Yeshiva University
* Karen Hwang, METRO Consultant
* Thomas Cleary, LaGuardia Community College
* Robin Naughton, New York Academy of Medicine

## AGENDA & NOTES
### Current Projects
* Thomas - nothing new
* Deena
  * Still working on migrating - MODS --> DC migration
  * Working through vendor: In the testing, running IMI, the DC was not updating when updating records. The vendor tried to fix it on their own. They were using the DC for display records. The vendor suggested to switch to MODS for this functions
  * MODS dates are often very complicated. She wants to make sure that they aren’t doing anything non-MODS
  * Thought that they might use the displayLabel to change the label for the display, which is what they were using for names.
  * Karen says that she is doing something similar. Display will use dateOther and dateCreated will be used for the normalized date.

* Margo - Nothing

* Henry
  * Metadata - the big bottle neck - creating, normalizing legacy metadata, and de-duping.  Maybe get a metadata person to help.
  * Subway construction photographs: spreadsheets with duplicates  72,540 photos: should he break it down into categories?
    * physically organized by routes
    * Robin said it would be good to break it down in different ways
    * Henry would use the finding aid to figure out categories
    * Collections in collections could be the structure. Better to do when you ingest

* Karen
  * METRO Migration project - Newark Public library - until October.
  * Question about mapping nodes from CONTENTdm to MODS
	* Nodes in ContentDM - traditional way to add section title; being used in different ways - compound objects

* Albert
	* Web Manager - Jerome moved on.  
	* Check sum - process to update older/current objects - Server issues with memory and performance

* Robin
  * Putting together a digital preservation planning project -
    * Andrea is taking the lead on that
    * Wants to start looking into the Islandora digital preservation tools

  * Still working on the Resurrection project (CONTENTdm to Islandora migration)
  * Matz Hospital postcard collection: NYC subgroup will be piloting and try to get funding for that
  * Menus projects (Cookery collection): being cataloged

### Workshops - METRO Series
* OpenRefine Workshops - Karen's colleague's availability: Spring workshop
* Do we want to do something for Archives Week (October 16th - 23rd 2019) or NYC DH Week (February 2020)? Webinar for Archives Week? Diverse collections around NYC that use Islandora. That way we don’t need a space, we could use something like Zoom.

* Archipelago - METRO shifting to this
  * Have the data play better together
  * Data structure is portable to new systems
  * What does this look like for migration?

* Question about Google Analytics from Deena
  * Robin and Thomas both have Google
  Analytics. Robin feels that you can get granular data, but it’s harder on a item level basis.
  * The namespace is important for how you can drill down on the data by collection and pages.
  * Robin’s trying to set up Google Analytics to improve faceting

  ### Updates Since meeting
  * Deena - website launched https://digital.library.yu.edu/
  * Solr workshop - Karen and Robin have looked into getting someone to do a Solr workshop
    * Karen looked into Solr workshop for newbies by Hector Correa - https://github.com/hectorcorrea/solr-for-newbies.  He would be a good option.
    * Robin reached out to Audrey who is now working in Solr at IBM.
