# NYC Islandora Meeting: October 2019
* **Date:**  Monday, October 28, 2019
* **Time:** 3 - 5PM
* **Host:** Martha Tenney
* **Location:** Barnard College, 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027
* [NYCIslandora Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/nycislandora)


## ATTENDEES
* Karen Hwang, METRO Consultant
* Deena Schwimmer, Yeshiva University
* Thomas Cleary, LaGuardia Community College
* Martha Tenney, Barnard College
* Hilary, Barnard College
* Robin Naughton, New York Academy of Medicine


## AGENDA & NOTES
 * Welcome & Introductions
 * Meeting schedule
 	* Upcoming Meetings: 
 		* November 19, 2019 (Tuesday)
		* December 17, 2019 (Tuesday) - this will be our holiday get together.  We will meet out at a good venue for food and drinks.
	* 2020 Meetings - TBD. Need to determine if we want to continue with the monthly or shift to every two months.  
	
 * Current Project Updates
	* Migrations and Islandora 8
		* ICG/Barnard trying to do work around ISLE for Islandora 8, schools' metadata staff working on metadata transformations 
		* Others are considering options: DiscoveryGarden branch of Islandora 7; Islandora 8; Archipelago. Trying to wait to see where other people are at before making a commitment.
		
    * We talked about updates: migrations, new audio collections, etc.
    * Karen - finishing up major migration for Newark Public Library
    * Deena - website launched and looking into ways to structure collections so that sub-collections are easily visible.
    * Thomas - will be presenting to CUNY archive community on Islandora as part of CUNY's goal to find one system for archivists across the university.  
    * Martha - recent website redesign for mobile access.
    * Robin - user reserach survey for website enhancement.
    
* Workshops
	* Workshop ideas are in the [wiki](https://github.com/rnaughtonwk/NYCIslandora/wiki/Workshops). 
	* Solr workshop - Karen will reach out to her contact to repeat a workshop at METRO or do a webinar. Robin is also talking to Audrey about this
	* OpenRefine - Karen is doing this workshop with someone else. 
	* TWIG - maybe Diego would want to teach this?
	* Something on metadata, more general interest; METRO is not interested in Islandora workshops currently but does want to support a series of workshops on digital collections
	* Best practices: File format workshop?	Sharing best practices across archivists, developers, etc.
	* Surveying landscape of digital collections platforms/options. DAMs, open source systems, vendor systems. Like a live version of [this spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cXOug3qM0pNNeD_wssiVEv9c0W1Y5I1VDTnSPTk7fb4/edit#gid=0)
	* Future: something about MODS to RDF process--a meetup/working group? Could be a webinar with the Islandora MIG. Digital preservation?

