# NYC Islandora Meeting: September 2018
* **Date:**  September 20, 2018
* **Time:** 3 - 5PM
* **Host:** Martha Tenney
* **Location:** [Barnard College, 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027](https://barnard.edu/about/visit/campus-map)
* [NYCIslandora Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/nycislandora)


## ATTENDEES
Please add your name if you plan to attend the meeting.

* Henry Raine
* Robin Naughton
* Thomas Cleary
* Martha Tenney
* Marko Krkeljas

## AGENDA & NOTES
* Welcome & Introductions
* Islandora Workshop at Queens College Library school Planning
  * 11/14, 3:55pm-6:30pm, at Queens College (try to arrive a little early to set up), 20-30 people. Aim for 2 hours, with a break, and time for questions at the end
  * The class has started to talk about metadata structures, but we should keep it pretty non-technical
  * Kim sent a batch of slides—follow this template, pull what we need, as well as Diego’s – **Action:** Thomas will work on this
  * First half of the class – intro and demos, go over use cases from our own institutions, discuss hosting and the kind of work that goes into a digital collections
  * Second half of the class – hands-on workshop. Use the public Islandora sandbox—will there be issues with the whole class using the same logins? Do a single form upload and batch upload. Could talk about other ways of doing ingest—Henry could talk about the multi-importer (or demo it), Martha can talk a bit about scripting and metadata spreadsheets?
  * After Thomas creates the slide template, we’ll work on a shared google doc to plan it together
  * Work on the workshop more at our next meeting/over a phone call?
* Panel discussion - mostly tabled
  * Could develop it out of the workshop if the workshop is successful
  * Maybe plan for February, Digital Humanities Week or another time
  * Discuss in December?
* Project Work Share
  * Possibly work on Robin’s metadata fest – December 
* Updates from the field
  * Martha – working on audio digitization project. Idea from Robin - use programs to link out to the recordings. Idea from Henry - WNYC collection – look at audio. ICG is also looking for ISLE testers, see [google group message](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora-isle/f2EbgRpSDkE)
  * Thomas – starting to move the image on his machine onto Amazon, setting up photo batch uploads
  * Henry – a few major digitization projects: 7th regiment, METRO grant for photographs of celebrities, and NEH-funded subway construction photographs
  * Robin – trying to finish a METRO grant, doing minimal metadata for now and will be doing more extensive metadata later. [Metadata working group](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group) is working on testing of CLAW release, not sure exactly how the metadata will work. 

* **Note on scheduling – rescheduled the October meeting to Thursday 10/25, 3-5pm**
  
## Upcoming
* [ACH2019 CONFERENCE](http://ach2019.ach.org/cfp/cfp-call-for-participation-en/) - possible proposal submission.
* Code4Lib – proposal due by October 4th
* Post links to DLF, Open Repositories, Digital Preservation, PASIG, Islandora conferences, Digitial Initiatives Symposium (San Diego)


