# NYC Islandora Meeting: May 2018
* **Date:**  May 17,2018
* **Time:** 3 - 5PM
* **Host:** The New York Academy of Medicine
* **Location:** 1216 5th Avenue, New York, NY 10029, 3rd floor.
* [NYCIslandora Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/nycislandora)


## ATTENDEES
Please add your name if you plan to attend the meeting.
* Robin Naughton (New York Academy of Medicine)
* Karen Hwang (Metropolitan New York Library Council)
* Diego Pino (METRO)
* Emily Miranker (New York Academy of Medicine)


## AGENDA & NOTES
### Agenda
* Welcome & Introductions
* Review last meeting notes
* Membership Outreach
* Ways to contribute to community
* Updates from the field

### Notes
Much of the meeting focused on a discussion around two major topics:
* What is our goal with the working group
  * An opportunity to bring the local community together
  * An exchange of ideas in the local community
  * A place to discuss challenges
* Developing an Islandora Panel Discussion
  * Develop a panel discussion on Islandora that can be held in the fall - end of September - October 2018.
  * The idea of the panel is to introduce Islandora to others but also to create a method of discussion that connects a variety of people interested in the topics of the working group.
  * The panel needs to be interactive in some way so that participants can leave with hands-on experience.  What will I learn by attending this panel?  What are the learning outcomes?
  * Topics need to be broad enough to draw in Islandora and non-Islandora users.  For example, a discussion on metadata, open source systems, etc.
  * Here's a link to the event description of the Islandora Panel we did a few years ago: [Hello Islandora](http://www.nyam.org/events/event/hello-islandora-building-digital-repository/)

We also discussed outreach.
* We should reach out to museum computer network and the museum council of New York.  These groups are interested in similar topics dealing with the management of information and repositories.  
* In terms of sharing with others, having a specific topic that others would find valuable would be a good way to draw people in.  For example, last year we did a workshop/meeting on VM & Vagrant.  This focused meeting is an example, of one that we can share with anyone interested in learning more about these topics. We will need to plan a couple of these for the rest of the year.
